Which was revealed in Makkah بِسْمِ اللَّهِ الرَّحْمَـنِ الرَّحِيمِ In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. All Praise and the Knowledge of the Unseen belong to Allah Alone Allah tells us that all praise belongs to Him alone in this world and in the Hereafter, because He is the Giver and Bestower who gives to the people of this world and the Hereafter, the Sovereign and Controller of all. Allah says: وَهُوَ اللَّهُ لا إِلَـهَ إِلاَّ هُوَ لَهُ الْحَمْدُ فِى الاٍّولَى وَالاٌّخِرَةِ وَلَهُ الْحُكْمُ وَإِلَيْهِ تُرْجَعُونَ (And He is Allah; none has the right to be worshipped but He, all praise is due to Him (both) in the first (i.e., in this world) and in the last (the Hereafter). And for Him is the decision, and to Him shall you (all) be returned.) (28:70). Allah says: الْحَمْدُ للَّهِ الَّذِى لَهُ مَا فِى السَّمَـوَتِ وَمَا فِى الاٌّرْضِ (All praise is due to Allah, to Whom belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth.) meaning, all of it is His dominion and is enslaved by Him and subject to His control, as Allah says: وَإِنَّ لَنَا لَلاٌّخِرَةَ وَالاٍّولَى (And truly, unto Us (belong) the last (Hereafter) and the first (this world)) (92:13). Then Allah says: وَلَهُ الْحَمْدُ فِى الاٌّخِرَةِ (His is all praise in the Hereafter,) for He is the One Who will be worshipped forever and praised for eternity. وَهُوَ الْحَكِيمُ and He is the All-Wise, means, in all that He says and does, legislates and decrees. الْخَبِيرُ the All-Aware. from Whom nothing at all is hidden or concealed. Ma0lik narrated that Az-Zuhri said, He is All-Aware of His creation, All-Wise in His commands. Allah says: يَعْلَمُ مَا يَلْجُ فِى الاٌّرْضِ وَمَا يَخْرُجُ مِنْهَا (He knows that which goes into the earth and that which comes forth from it,) meaning, He knows the number of raindrops that sink into the depths of the earth, and the seeds that have been sown, and the things that are hidden in it, and He knows what comes forth from that, how many they are, how they grow and what they look like. وَمَا يَنزِلُ مِنَ السَّمَآءِ (and that which descends from the heaven) means, of raindrops and provision, and what ascends into it, i.e., righteous deeds and other things. وَهُوَ الرَّحِيمُ الْغَفُورُ (And He is the Most Merciful, the Oft-Forgiving.) means, He is Most Merciful to His servants; He does not hasten to punish them, and He forgives the sins of those who repent to Him and put their trust in Him.